
What is the difference between heap dump, thread dump and a core dump? 


Heap dump - Collection of objects that are in memory (JVM)
Thread dump - Shows what each thread in a process is doing at a given point in time along with the stack trace.
Core dump - O/S level dump file which has O/S level info in addition to the heap dump.

Heap dump - is useful to analyse OOM situations.
Thread dump - To troubleshoot slow running of your application.
Core dump - When your JVM has crashed abruptly. To find details about native calls and so on. 

Core dump will be generated automatically if a program crashed due to segmentation fault or some other reason. But core dump will not be generated if an application halt and been terminate by control+c or conventional way of kill or pkill.

In order to force a core dump generation you could run kill -6 <PID>

You should also make sure that you have enabled it and have provided enough space and permissions for it to get generated.

For Linux, the coredump is turned off by default on all systems. For RedHat Advanced Server 2.1, it should be under /etc/security. There should be a self-explanatory file called limits.conf and look for the word "core". If set to "0", then coredump is disabled.

For Solaris, you can also make sure core files are enabled with the coreadm command.

Check ulimit -a to see whether your environment allows core files to be produced.
ulimit -c (This is the size limit of the core file. Fix it with ulimit -c unlimited).
Kernel limitation (hard limit for ulimit -c).


Heap Dump 
Automatically Generating a Heap Dump when Confluence Hits OutOfMemory Error
Typically, we would like to analyze the heap dump produced when Confluence died from an OutOfMemory Error. 
For this, you can add additional JVM parameters like below:
-XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -XX:HeapDumpPath=<path to this heap dump file>

Manually Generating a Heap Dump when Confluence Stops Responding
It is also possible to get a heap dump manually using a JDK bundled tool called jmap, although we recommend that you use the automatic method above for best result.
For Linux/Solaris-based Operating Systems:
Please execute the following command on Linux OS:
$JAVA_HOME/bin/jmap -dump:format=b,file=heap.bin <pid>



Generating thread dumps on Linux
To generate a thread dump on Linux (or Solaris or other Unixes):
Identify the java process that Confluence is running in.: This can be achieved by running a command similar to:
ps -ef | grep java.
Use the process ID from the above to generate the thread dumps:
kill -3 <pid>
This won't kill your server (so long as you included the "-3" option with no space in between).


